In the last lecture we had a look at how to run our app on our iOS device.
Let's now consider Android here.
We also have some requirements we have to meet first of all it's important to understand which Android
API levels are supported by quarterbacked.
This will become important in a second and then we have a couple of software requirements.
The good news are you can build Android apps on both Mac Linux and Windows.
Technically that's not both I guess but yeah that works on all platforms.
You need to install the Java development kit though.
You can find a link on this code of a documentation page here or you can simply google for JDK 7 or
KDK in general to get the latest version.
Then you need to Android SDK and for that you can even download the standalone SDK tools or Android
studio which is a complete id e where you could also create native and Android apps with Java if you
want to look into this.
So one of the two options and once you did install even the standalone SDK tools or Android studio you
should open them.
So here I open Android studio and there you can simply go to the STK manager or if you download the
standalone tools simply go into the tools launch the standalone manager here and then you need a couple
of tools here you can find it on the official documentation.
You need the platform tools for the STK of your targeted Android Werben DSK book tools and the support
repository.
So first of all the STK Boltt tools I installed them already as you can tell.
So definitely make sure to check this.
If this is not installed for you then you should also pick your Android Werben and your latest version
might not be supported by Cordova.
So definitely have a look at the quarterback documentation though.
Sadly one in seven is supported even though the documentation here does it state it at SES its answer
to version 23.
But I can tell you 20:4 is also supported.
Though I noticed 25 is not supported.
You're going to see it when you try to build it if it doesn't work it's not supported and important.
Pick the highest version you want to support here.
Not the lowest version.
I already got android 7 and therefore API level 24 installed and finally the support repository you
can find under extras.
I already got installed.
Make sure to check Tizen to install it too.
So did you get this too disabled.
This is needed to support older devices then the target Android level.
So for example to OSes aboard Android six devices even though your target Android level is Android 7.
So after all installed Again check the checkboxes and click Install you might need to accept some terms
of views and thereafter.
Once this is installed you are prepared to run your application on Android and you can either run it
on a native device or in the Android emulator.
Now I do have a native Android device but unfortunately it's so old that capturing the screen would
be an absolute mess.
So I would show you the Android simulator now to show you death simulator.
I will first of all treat a build so I will run ionic build Android and important.
Of course you need to have that Android platform added.
If you don't have it added You need to run ionic platform at Android and this will.
You guessed it at the Android platform and it will also run an initial build.
If you are getting an error during this platform addition your SDK tools are not set up correctly or
you didn't install the right packages.
In this case make sure that you really fulfil those requirements here.
Also you might have issues with environment variables.
Normally they are set up correctly automatically but that can go wrong and if you are encountering any
error basically try to make sure that you fulfill those requirements and that your environment variables
are set up correctly.
You can learn how to set them here in this documentation.
In this article for both Linux and Windows.
So if that is all set correctly and the platform has been added successfully you can run ionic build
Android and others only need a year once because I want to load loaded in Android studio to show you
something there if you already got a virtual device set up and you'll notice you can simply run emulate
command right away which would be ironic.
Emulate Android.
Going to show this in a second.
So I created the build and now I can open an existing and project here for a dozen navigate it into
my on a two course project folder and they're under platforms I load the Android folder as a project
because this is where do you build.
I just create it will be stored.
So this will now load up in Android stood you amongst a lot of helpful pop ups I guess.
And then here you need to go to Tools Android abt manager to create a new virtual device.
Now I already have one.
If you don't have one click on Create ORGILL device and you can pick from a couple of blueprints and
then simply go through the desert.
It's really straightforward and you don't need to change anything most of the time.
So make sure you have such a virtual device set up here and then you could run the boat from within
your Android studio which might also be nice for debugging since this will open up a helpful interface
and a way a way that we do that.
So let's hit play here.
And picked that emulator.
Since I haven't a device connected this will open up this lock screen which will also print error messages
or your console lock statement.
So again great for debugging.
And now it will launch an emulator and I'll be back once it's launched successfully it opens up the
app automatically.
And now this app might be a bit slow here since this emulator is really taking quite a lot of resources
on the system and I'm also recording my system.
It runs fine on a real app I can't have you decided to test it.
And there let's go to quote's works.
Let's load our quote here favorite and this is what I meant.
It's a bit slow but that's only due to the emulator here.
Go to favorites.
The year looks good.
Let's unfavored it.
So it is working again a bit slow due to the heavy load on my system and it is faster if you're not
recording your screen and it will probably all be faster on your real device.
Speaking of this let's shut down this emulator and let's see the commands we can trigger from the command
line because as before with ISIS starting your app from Android stood us only one option.
Especially useful if you want to have this command line log here at the bottom or does this log in general.
Or you can see arrows and so on.
But you can also run it from the command line here in your project in your normal terminal by running
ionic emulate Android to start the emulator or push it to an existing one if you already have one running.
Or I want to run Android dasht as a device to run it on a connected Android device unlike for iOS.
You don't need to sign your app to do this.
This will be done automatically so you don't need to do this in Android studio.
So this is how you push your app to an Android device or emulator and run it there you also saw how
you could debug it in Android stood you.
And with that nothing should stop you from seeing your app run on the real Android device.